Fhv/sdk docs (#121)
encord-team/encord-client-python: docs/source/tutorials/datasets.rst

.. include:: ../substitutes.rst

********
Datasets
********

The |sdk| allows you to interact with the datasets you have added to |company|.
A dataset has the attributes ``title``, ``description``, ``dataset_type``, and ``data_rows``

.. code-block::

    {
        "title": "Example title",
        "description": "Example description ..",
        "dataset_type": "0",
        "data_rows": [
            {
                "data_hash": "<data_hash>",
                "data_title": "sample_data.mp4",
                "data_type": "VIDEO"
            }, {
                "data_hash": "<data_hash>",
                "data_title": "image-group-abcde",
                "data_type": "IMG_GROUP"
            },
            ...
        ]
    }

Note how the ``data_rows`` can both consist of videos and image groups.

Below, you can find tutorials on how to interact with your datasets when you have associated a :xref:`public-private_key_pair` with |company|.

Creating a dataset
==================

> To create a dataset, need to select where your data will be hosted with the appropriate :class:`StorageLocation <encord.orm.dataset.StorageLocation>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a dataset, first select where your data will be hosted with the appropriate :class:`StorageLocation <encord.orm.dataset.StorageLocation>`.
```

    If the ordering is important, make sure to provide a list with filenames in the correct order.

Adding data from a private cloud
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

#.  Use :meth:`user_client.get_cloud_integrations() <.EncordUserClient.get_cloud_integrations>` method to retrieve a list of available Cloud Integrations
#.  Grab the id from the integration of your choice and call :meth:`dataset_client.add_private_data_to_dataset() <.EncordClientDataset.add_private_data_to_dataset>` on the ``dataset_client`` with either the absolute path to a json file or a python dictionary in the format specified in the :xref:`private_cloud_section` of the |platform| datasets documentation

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: Code

        .. literalinclude:: /code_examples/tutorials/datasets/add_private_data.py
            :language: python

..
    TODO: Some things are missing here:
        1. A link to where cloud integrations are enabled on the web-app
        2. A way to enable cloud integrations from the SDK?
        3. Sample outputs of the given script

Deleting data
-------------

> You can remove both Videos and Image Groups from datasets created using both the |platform| and the |sdk|.

Reviewer: I'm thinking we shouldn't capitalise Videos and Image Groups. Looks weird when reading. What do you think @frederik-cord ?

Author: Agreed. TBH, I haven't paid too much attention to this section, as it is just a copy from the old docs.  I want to redo this section actually.

Author: Agreed. Will fix it.

Use the method :meth:`dataset_client.delete_data() <.EncordClientDataset.delete_data>` to delete from a dataset.

.. autolink-concat:: section

.. autolink-preface::

    from encord.client import EncordClientDataset
    dataset_client = EncordClientDataset()

.. code-block:: python

    dataset_client.delete_data(
        [
            "<video1_data_hash>",
            "<image_group1_data_hash>",
        ]
    )

In case the Video or Image Group belongs to |company|-hosted storage, the corresponding file will be removed from the Encord-hosted storage.

Please ensure that the list contains Videos/Image Groups from the same dataset which is used to initialise the :class:`dataset_client <.EncordClientDataset>`.

> Any Videos or Image Groups which do not belong to the dataset used for initialisation will be ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any Videos or Image Group which do not belong to the dataset used for initialisation will be ignored.
```
Adjust capitalisation based on what is decided in the comment above

.. include:: ../substitutes.rst

********
Datasets
********

The |sdk| allows you to interact with the datasets you have added to |company|.
A dataset has the attributes ``title``, ``description``, ``dataset_type``, and ``data_rows``

.. code-block::

    {
        "title": "Example title",
        "description": "Example description ..",
        "dataset_type": "0",
        "data_rows": [
            {
                "data_hash": "<data_hash>",
                "data_title": "sample_data.mp4",
                "data_type": "VIDEO"
            }, {
                "data_hash": "<data_hash>",
                "data_title": "image-group-abcde",
                "data_type": "IMG_GROUP"
            },
            ...
        ]
    }

Note how the ``data_rows`` can both consist of videos and image groups.

Below, you can find tutorials on how to interact with your datasets.

Creating a dataset
==================

You can use the |sdk| to create a dataset.

> First, you need to create a :xref:`public-private_key_pair` for |company|.

Reviewer: I don't think we need this line in the SDK docs as at this point we should assume users have installed and authenticated appropriately. Made sense in the web app docs, but not sure it does here.

You also need to select where your data will be hosted to select the appropriate :class:`StorageLocation <encord.orm.dataset.StorageLocation>`.
For example, the following example will create a dataset called "traffic data" that will expect data hosted on AWS S3.

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: Code

        .. literalinclude:: /code_examples/tutorials/datasets/creating_a_dataset.py
            :language: python

    .. tab:: Example output

        .. code-block:: python

            {
                "title": "Example Title",
                "type": 1,
                "dataset_hash": "<dataset_hash>",
                "user_hash": "<user_hash>",
            }

Listing existing datasets
=========================

> Via the :class:`.EncordUserClient`, you can easily query and list all the available datasets of a given user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the :class:`.EncordUserClient`, you can easily query and list all the available datasets of a given user.
```

.. autolink-concat:: section

.. autolink-preface::
    from encord.orm.dataset import DatasetInfo, DatasetUserRole, StorageLocation

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: Code

        .. literalinclude:: /code_examples/tutorials/datasets/listing_existing_datasets.py
            :language: python

    .. tab:: Example output

        .. code-block:: python

            [
                {
                    "dataset": DatasetInfo(
                            dataset_hash="<dataset_hash>",
                            user_hash="<user_hash>",
                            title="Example title",
                            description="Example description ... ",
                            type=0,  # encord.orm.dataset.StorageLocation
                            created_at=datetime.datetime(...),
                            last_edited_at=datetime.datetime(...)
                        ),
                    "user_role": DatasetUserRole.ADMIN
                },
                # ...
            ]

*Note:* the ``type`` attribute in the output refers to the :class:`.StorageLocation` used when :ref:`tutorials/datasets:Creating a dataset`.

.. note::

>     :meth:`.EncordUserClient.get_datasets` has multiple optional arguments that allow you to query datasets with specific characteristics.

Reviewer: Might be worth saying something like 'Please refer to the SDK reference' for more information, or something to that effect.

Author: The :meth:... is effectively a link to exactly where they would want to look.

Reviewer: Ah ok

    For example, if you only want datasets with titles starting with "Validation", you could use ``user_client.get_datasets(title_like="Validation%")``.
    Other keyword arguments such as :meth:`created_before  <.EncordUserClient.get_datasets>` or :meth:`edited_after <.EncordUserClient.get_datasets>` may also be of interest.

API keys
========

> Creating a maser API key with full rights

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creating a master API key with full rights
```

-----------------------------------------

It is also possible to create or get a master API key with both read and write access (both values of :class:`.DatasetScope`).
The following example show how to get hold of this key:

.. autolink-concat:: section

.. autolink-preface::
    from encord.orm.dataset_api_keys import DatasetAPIKey
    from encord.orm.dataset import DatasetScope

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: Code

        .. literalinclude:: /code_examples/tutorials/datasets/creating_a_master_api_key.py
            :language: python

    .. tab:: Example output

        .. code-block:: python

            DatasetAPIKey(
              dataset_hash="<dataset_hash>",
              api_key="<api_key>",
              title="",
              scopes=[
                  DatasetScope.READ,
                  DatasetScope.WRITE,
              ]
            )

Creating a dataset API key with specific rights
-----------------------------------------------

Via the |sdk| you can create a dataset-specific API key.

> The API key is one way to :ref:`authentication:Authenticate with Encord`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An API key is one way to :ref:`authentication:Authenticate with Encord`.
```

> You need to provide the ``dataset_hash``, which uniquely identifies a dataset (see, e.g., the :ref:`tutorials/datasets:Listing existing datasets` to get such hash).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to provide the ``dataset_hash``, which uniquely identifies a dataset (see, for example, the :ref:`tutorials/datasets:Listing existing datasets` to get such hash).
```

If you haven't created a dataset already, you can have a look at :ref:`tutorials/datasets:Creating a Dataset`.

.. autolink-concat:: section

.. autolink-preface::
    from encord.orm.dataset_api_keys import DatasetAPIKey
    from encord.orm.dataset import DatasetScope

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: Code

        .. literalinclude:: /code_examples/tutorials/datasets/creating_a_dataset_api_key.py
            :language: python

    .. tab:: Example output

        .. code-block:: python

            DatasetAPIKey(
              dataset_hash="<dataset_hash>",
              api_key="<api_key>",
              title="Example api key title",
              scopes=[
                  DatasetScope.READ,
                  DatasetScope.WRITE,
              ]
            )

.. note::

>     This capability is available to only the Admin of a dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This capability is only available to an Admin of a dataset.
```

> With the API key at hand, you can use :ref:`authentication:API key authentication`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the API key in hand, you can use :ref:`authentication:API key authentication`.
```

Fetching dataset API keys
-------------------------

> Via the |sdk|, you can get all API keys for an existing dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the |sdk| to get all API keys for an existing dataset.
```

You need to provide the ``dataset_hash`` which uniquely identifies a dataset (see, e.g., the :ref:`tutorials/datasets:Listing existing datasets` to get such hash).
If you haven't created a dataset already, you can have a look at :ref:`tutorials/datasets:Creating a Dataset`.

.. autolink-concat:: section

.. autolink-preface::
    from encord.orm.dataset_api_keys import DatasetAPIKey
    from encord.orm.dataset import DatasetScope

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: Code

        .. literalinclude:: /code_examples/tutorials/datasets/fetching_dataset_api_keys.py
            :language: python

    .. tab:: Example output

        .. code-block:: python

            [
                DatasetAPIKey(
                  dataset_hash="<dataset_hash>",
                  api_key="<dataset_api_key>",
                  title="Full Access API Key",
                  scopes=[
                      DatasetScope.READ,
                      DatasetScope.WRITE,
                  ]
                ),
                # ...
            ]

> With the API key at hand, you can use :ref:`authentication:API key authentication`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now use this API key for :ref:`authentication:API key authentication`.
```

Data
====

Adding data
-----------

You can add data to datasets in multiple ways.

> You can both use |company| storage, as described next, and you can :ref:`add data from a private cloud <tutorials/datasets:Adding data from a private cloud>` to retain complete control of the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can both use |company| storage, as described next, or you can :ref:`add data from a private cloud <tutorials/datasets:Adding data from a private cloud>` to integrate any pre-existing data.
```

Otherwise it heavily implies one is better than the other!

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: Code

        .. literalinclude:: /code_examples/tutorials/datasets/add_private_data.py
            :language: python

..
    TODO: Some things are missing here:
        1. A link to where cloud integrations are enabled on the web-app
        2. A way to enable cloud integrations from the SDK?
        3. Sample outputs of the given script

Deleting data
-------------

You can remove both Videos and Image Groups from datasets created using both the |platform| and the |sdk|.
Use the method :meth:`dataset_client.delete_data() <.EncordClientDataset.delete_data>` to delete from a dataset.

.. autolink-concat:: section

.. autolink-preface::

    from encord.client import EncordClientDataset
    dataset_client = EncordClientDataset()

.. code-block:: python

    dataset_client.delete_data(
        [
            "<video1_data_hash>",
            "<image_group1_data_hash>",
        ]
    )

> In case the Video or Image Group belongs to |company|-hosted storage, the corresponding file shall be removed from the Encord-hosted storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case the Video or Image Group belongs to |company|-hosted storage, the corresponding file will be removed from the Encord-hosted storage.
```

Please ensure that the list contains Videos/Image Groups from the same dataset which is used to initialise the :class:`dataset_client <.EncordClientDataset>`.
Any Videos or Image Groups which do not belong to the dataset used for initialisation would be ignored.

Re-encoding videos
------------------

> As videos come with various formats, frame rates, etc., one may in rare cases experience some frame-syncing issues on the |platform|.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As videos come in various formats, frame rates, etc., one may - in rare cases - experience some frame-syncing issues on the |platform|.
```

> Specifically, it can be the case that, e.g., frame 100 on the |platform| does not correspond to the hundredth frame that you load with python.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, it might be the case that frame 100 on the |platform| does not correspond to the hundredth frame that you load with python.
```

A browser test in the |platform| can tell you if you are at risk of experiencing this issue.

.. TODO: we desperately need a link to documentation here ^

> To mitigate such issues, you can re-encode your videos to get a new version of your videos that do not exhibit such issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To mitigate such issues, you can re-encode your videos to get a new versions that do not exhibit these issues.
```

Trigger a re-encoding task
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> You re-encode a list of Videos by triggering a task for the same using the |sdk|.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You re-encode a list of videos by triggering a task for the same using the |sdk|.
```

> Use the method :meth:`dataset_client.re_encode_data() <.EncordClientDataset.re_encode_data>` to re-encode the list of videos specified

Reviewer: This is active voice and is fine here as that is what you have been using for instructions (which is good as that is the same as the web app docs)

Author: So sorry that I missed this. Everything should have been active voice then 👎

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: Code

        .. code-block:: python

            task_id = dataset_client.re_encode_data(
                [
                    "video1_data_hash",
                    "video2_data_hash",
                ]
            )
            print(task_id)

    .. tab:: Output example

        .. code-block:: python

            1337   # Some integer

On completion, a ``task_id`` is returned which can be used for monitoring the progress of the task.

> Please ensure that the list contains Videos from the same dataset which is used to initialise the EncordClient.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please ensure that the list contains videos from the same dataset that was used to initialise the EncordClient.
```

Any Videos which do not belong to the dataset used for initialisation would be ignored.

Check the status of a re-encoding task
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> You can monitor the status of an existing Re-encoding Task using this |sdk|.

Reviewer: I would delete this line and concatenate it with the next to make it more succinct.

> Use the method :meth:`dataset_client.re_encode_data_status(task_id) <.EncordClientDataset.re_encode_data_status>` to get the status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the method :meth:`dataset_client.re_encode_data_status(task_id) <.EncordClientDataset.re_encode_data_status>` to get the status of an existing re-encoding task.
```

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: Code

        .. code-block:: python

            from encord.orm.dataset import ReEncodeVideoTask
            task: ReEncodeVideoTask = (
                dataset_client.re_encode_data_status(task_id)
            )
            print(task)

    .. tab:: Example output

        .. code-block::

            ReEncodeVideoTask(
                status="DONE",
                result=[
                    ReEncodeVideoTaskResult(
                        data_hash="<data_hash>",
                        signed_url="<signed_url>",
                        bucket_path="<bucket_path>",
                    ),
                    ...
                ]
            )

The ReEncodeVideoTask contains a field called ``status`` which can take the values

> #. ``"SUBMITTED"`` means that the task is currently in progress and the status should be checked back again later

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. ``"SUBMITTED"``: the task is currently in progress and the status should be checked back again later
```

> #. ``"DONE"`` means that the task has been completed successfully and the field 'result' would contain metadata about the re-encoded video

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. ``"DONE"``: the task has been completed successfully and the field 'result' would contain metadata about the re-encoded video
```

> #. ``"ERROR"`` signifies that the task has failed and could not complete the re-encoding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. ``"ERROR"``: signifies that the task has failed and could not complete the re-encoding
```
